# Programmable-Quantum-Matter
Codes for the paper: "Programmable Quantum Matter: Harnessing Qubit Inhomogeneity in Solid-State Spin Ensembles for Scalable Cluster State Generation"

We have organized the Github repo in terms of the sections in the paper and Supplements. Below we describe the workflow and code used to generate a particular figure in the main text or supplements.

## Section I: SAFE-GRAPE
This section corresponds to folder "/Error-Correcting Pulses_/" which contains the following files:

1. SAFE_GRAPE.ipynb. This notebook implements the numeric pulse engineering and is used to generate Fig. 2 in the main text.

## Section II: Filter-Function
This section corresponds to folder "/Dynamical Decoupling - Filter Function/" which contains the following files:

1. Filter_Function_I.ipynb: This notebook takes the numeric values from SAFE-GRAPE optimization and numerically evaluates the Filter function for pulse sequences A, and B. This is used to generate Fig. 3(b-d) in the main text.

2. Filter_Function_II.py: This code is similar to above, and further takes into account a noise-spectrum for SiV. Further, it numerically evaluates the value of chi, T2, Fidelity, z (scaling factor) for pulse sequences A and B, and stores them in .csv files.

## Section III: Temperature and T2 Simulations
This section corresponds to folder "/Dynamical Decoupling - Filter Function/" which contains the following files:

1. Fid_N=2.csv, N=16_results_parallel.csv, N=8_results_parallel.csv, N=4_results_parallel.csv, N=2_results_parallel.csv: These are the .csv files generated by "Filter_Function_II.py" above.

2. heat_capacity.py: This is a helper function to simulate heat-capacity of diamond chip based on its footprint.

3. Decoherence_sim.py: This code uses the values from csv files above, and helper function above and simulates variation in temperature of SiV and T2 values, Eq.(18-20) in the main text. This is used to generate Fig. 4(a-f) in the main text.

4. T2_heatmaps.py: This code is similar to above, but instead plots the heatmap for T2A/T2B over an epsilon-f grid space. This is used to generate Fig. 4(g-j) in the main text.

5. qubit_scaling.py: This code is similar to "Decoherence_sim.py" but it sweeps over the value of number of qubits 'm', to see its impact on Theta and T2. This is used to generate Fig. 13 in the Supplements.
   
## Section IV: Entanglement Simulations
This section corresponds to folder "/Entanglement simulations/" which contains the following files:

1. Same .csv files as section above

2. heat_capacity.py: same as above section

3. Entanglement.py: This is a helper code which estimates temperature of SiV, then evaluates modified temperature dependent T2, T1 (Eq. (20) from main text). After this it utilizes the csv files generated by section above, to evaluate link fidelities (Eq.(23)), average two-qubit gate errors (Eq.(28)), for different points in the epsilon-f space.

4. qv_vs_t_cmpl_A/B.py: This utlizes the above helper codes and .csv files, and evaluates average 2-qubit gate error for different points in (j-k) space. Then it performs the thresholding and evaluates the number of n_links and epsilon_eff (Eq. (27-28)), and prints statistics for a particular value of t_dds, t_cmpl, N.      

5. n_links_plots.py, e_eff_plots.py: These codes utilize the above code, and data generated from previous part and plots variaton with N. This is used to generate Fig. 6(a-d) in the main text.

## Section V: Compilation
This section corresponds to folder "/Compilation/" which contains the following files:

1. strain_window_alg1.py: This code does SiV strain simulation, in order to justify the assumption in Section III.C in the main text. This is used to generate Fig. 9 in the main text. 

2. Alg_II_heatmap.py: This code simulates different paramters of link-statistics h_j in the form of color maps. This is used to generate Fig. 8(a-c) in the main text.

3. Alg_II_linkstat.py: This code simulates link statistics h_j, for different values of time window, as described in Algorithm II. This is used to generate Fig. 8d in the main text. 

## Section VI: Heat Modeling
This section corresponds to folder "/Heat_Modeling/" which contains the following files:

1. heat_capacity.py: same as above section

2. dil_fridge.py: This code estimates the slow rise in the average cold-plate stage temperature in the dilution fridge. This is used to generate Fig. 11 in the Supplements.

3. temp_siv_fast.py: This code estimates the fast rise in the average SiV temperature. This is used to generate Fig. 12 in the Supplements.

## Section VII: Strain Driving
This section corresponds to folder "/SiV Strain Driving/" which contains the following files:

1. StrainDriving.ipynb: This notebook performs simulations to show that arbitrary single qubit gates can be realized using strain driving of SiV, in particular rotations around X, Y and XY bisector on the Bloch sphere are shown. This is used to generate Fig. 2 in the Supplements.
